{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\deff0{\fonttbl{\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}{\f1\fmodern\fcharset0 Courier;}{\f2\fmodern\fcharset0 Courier-Bold;}{\f3\fmodern\fcharset0 Courier-Oblique;}}
{\*\generator Msftedit 5.41.21.2510;}\viewkind4\uc1\pard\lang1033\b\f0\fs48 How to Use This API\b0\par
\fs30\par
Note that anything that is underlined is variable, meaning that it requires you to replace it with your own data.\par
\par
Ex:\par
\f1 <playchan \ul\b\f2 SOUND:STRING\ulnone\b0\f1  \ul\b\f2 CHANNEL:INT\ulnone\b0\f1 >\f0\par
SOUND:STRING will be replaced with the name of your sound in Stencyl. The word following the colon indicates the type of variable it expects.\par
CHANNEL:INT will be replaced with the sound channel you would like to play the sound on. Since the word following the colon is INT, it expects an integer.\par
\par
To learn more about the types of variables, see the bottom of this document.\par
\par
\b\fs48 Dialog Options\b0\fs30\par
\par
\b\f2 <choice [[\ul OPTION_TEXT:STRING\ulnone  \ul DIALOG_CHUNK_ID:STRING\ulnone  \ul CONDITION:BOOL]\ulnone  ...]>\b0\f0\par
\par
Display a list of options for the player to choose from.\par
Ex: Where would you like to go today?\par
\f1 <choice [\par
\tab ["The Pool" "Pool Part 1"]\par
\tab ["Mars" "Space Center" <getattr [game "Space Unlocked"]>]\par
\tab ["Back Home" Home]\par
]>\f0\par
("The Pool", "Mars", and "Back Home" options are listed out for the player, and they lead to dialog chunks name "Pool Part 1", "Space Center", and "Home" respectively. However, the "Mars" option is only shown if the associated game attribute, "Space Unlocked", is true.)\par
\par
\par
\b\fs48 Extra Glyphs\b0\fs30\par
\par
\b\f2 <glyph \ul IMAGE:STRING\ulnone >\b0\f0\par
\par
Includes an image in your dialog, inline with the text.\par
Ex: I love you!! \f1 <glyph heart>\f0\par
(Displays the image "heart.png" from the extras folder after the text)\par
\par
\par
\b\fs48 Character Scripts\b0\fs30\par
\par
\b\f2 <showname \ul NAME:STRING\ulnone >\b0\f0\par
\par
Displays a character name + namebox\par
Ex: \f1 <showname Lenny>\f0\par
(Display the name Lenny in a namebox)\par
\par
\b\f2 <hidename>\b0\f0\par
\par
Removes the namebox.\par
\par
\b\f2 <face \ul IMAGE:STRING\ulnone >\b0\f0\par
\par
Display a character face/portrait.\par
Ex: \f1 <face Lenny>\f0\par
(This actually depends on the preference you have set for this extension. Assuming \f1 faceImagePrefix="Face "\f0 , this would show image "Face Lenny.png" from your extras folder)\par
Ex 2: \f1 <face none>\f0\par
(Removes the face graphic)\par
\par
\par
\b\fs48 Flow Scripts\b0\fs30\par
\par
\b\f2 <waitattr [\ul ATTR\ulnone  \ul VALUE:ANY\ulnone ]>\b0\f0\par
\par
Dialog will wait for some attribute to reach a value before proceeding.\par
Ex: \f1 <waitattr ["game" "Cutscene Ongoing" false]>\f0\par
(Will wait until the game attribute, "Cutscene Ongoing", becomes false before continuing with the dialog.)\par
(You can refer to the bottom of this document for info on potential values for ATTR.)\par
\par
\par
\b\f2 <wait \ul TIME:FLOAT\ulnone >\b0\f0\par
\par
Inserts a pause into the dialog.\par
Ex: \f1 <wait .5>\f0\par
(Dialog will be paused for half a second before continuing.)\par
\par
\par
\b\f2 <but>\b0\f0\par
\par
Shows a pointed and waits for user input.\par
Ex: Oh, hello!\f1 <but>\f0  My name is Chuck.\f1 <but>\f0  And what's yours??\f1 <but>\f0\par
(The player has to press the continue button, set in this extensions prefs, in order to continue the dialog at the three \f1 <but>\f0  points. Careful, this example is probably overkill as far as causing stops in the dialog.)\par
\par
\par
\b\f2 <bc>\b0\f0\par
\par
Like \f1 <but>\f0  but when dialog continues, the dialog box is automatically cleared.\par
\par
\par
\b\fs48 Logic\b0\fs30\par
\par
\b\f2 <if \ul CONDITION:BOOL\ulnone >\par
<elseif \ul CONDITION:BOOL\ulnone >\par
<else>\par
<endif>\b0\f0\par
\par
Control what's seen and what isn't. Personalize messages, or give the player valuable info based on his current status in the game.\par
Ex: \f1 <if <getattr [game "Dragon 1 Defeated Again"]>>\f0 We'll be forever in your debt, hero! Allow me to give you a special discount...\par
\f1 <elseif <getattr [game "Dragon 1 Defeated"]>>\f0 The legends say that the dragon will come back with a vengeance for he who sealed him... I hope it's just hearsay.\par
\f1 <else>\f0 Business is sure good with the dragon around, warying the townsfolk, but I have to keep an eye on my stock, make sure it doesn't steal anything.\par
\f1 <endif><dg "General Shop">\f0\par
(From the place you enter an \f1 <if>\f0  tag, it can be followed by multiple \f1 <elseif>\f0  tags and then a single \f1 <else>\f0  tag if desired.)\par
(Eventually, it has to be followed by and \f1 <endif>\f0  tag so that the dialog system knows where to resume normal dialog.)\par
\par
\par
\b\fs48 Messaging Scripts\b0\fs30\par
\par
\b\f2 <setattr [\ul ATTR\ulnone  \ul VALUE:ANY\ulnone ]>\b0\f0\par
\par
Sets an attribute.\par
Ex: \f1 <setattr [actor Player "Health Behavior" _health 100]>\f0\par
\par
\par
\b\f2 <getattr [\ul ATTR\ulnone ]>\b0\f0\par
\par
This tag is primarily intended for use WITHIN other tags, if you want to refer to some value that can't be expressed normally in this dialog editor.\par
Ex: \f1 <setattr [actor Player "Target Behavior" _currentTarget <getattr [game "Boss 2"]>]>\f0\par
(Yeah, I really don't know where I'm going with these examples. But let's break that one down a little, shall we?)\par
(\f1 <setattr [actor Player "Target Behavior" _currentTarget ...]>\f0 )\par
(There we have a setattr tag. Pretty basic, okay. But what if we were trying to set, for example an Actor Attribute?)\par
(So, we have an Actor Attribute stored in the game attribute "Boss 2", so let's use that to fill in the ... area we left blank)\par
(\f1 <setattr [actor Player "Target Behavior" _currentTarget ...<getattr [game "Boss 2"]>...]>\f0 )\par
\par
\par
\b\f2 <showattr [\ul ATTR\ulnone ]>\b0\f0\par
\par
This takes the text representation of some attribute and inserts it into this position in the dialog.\par
Ex: WOW! YOU'VE SAVED UP \f1 <showattr [game \ldblquote Rupees\rdblquote ]>\f0  RUPEES!! AWESOME!\par
(...I guess that's supposed to be a Majora's Mask banker reference?)\par
\par
\par
\b\f2 <messagescene \ul BEHAVIOR_NAME:STRING\ulnone  \ul MESSAGE:STRING\ulnone  [\ul ARG:ANY\ulnone  ...]>\b0\f0\par
\par
Sends a message to a scene behavior attached to the current scene.\par
\par
\par
\b\f2 <messageactor \ul ACTOR_NAME:STRING\ulnone  \ul BEHAVIOR_NAME:STRING\ulnone  \ul MESSAGE:STRING\ulnone  [\ul ARG:ANY\ulnone  ...]>\b0\f0\par
\par
Sends a message to an actor.\par
\par
\par
\b\fs48 Skip Scripts\b0\fs30\par
\par
\b\f2 <skip>\b0\f0\par
\par
This enables the ability to skip text by holding the text skipping buttons if it was previously disabled.\par
\par
\par
\b\f2 <noskip>\b0\f0\par
\par
Disables ability to skip through text. Maybe use it for a cutscene when timing of the dialog is crucial.\par
\par
\par
\b\fs48 Sound Scripts\b0\fs30\par
\par
\b\f2 <playsound \ul SOUND:STRING\ulnone >\b0\f0\par
\par
Plays a sound.\par
Ex: \f1 <playsound "Howl"><wait .1> \f0 ! ? ! <wait .5> Did you hear that??<but>\par
\par
\par
\b\f2 <loopsound \ul SOUND:STRING\ulnone >\b0\f0\par
\par
Loops a sound. Like above, but can be used for ambient BG sounds or music.\par
\par
\par
\b\f2 <stopsound>\b0\f0\par
\par
Stops currently playing sounds.\par
\par
\par
\b\f2 <playchan \ul SOUND:STRING\ulnone  \ul CHANNEL:INT\ulnone >\b0\f0\par
\par
Plays sound on a specific channel.\par
\par
\par
\b\f2 <loopchan \ul SOUND:STRING\ulnone  \ul CHANNEL:INT\ulnone >\b0\f0\par
\par
Loops sound on a specific channel.\par
\par
\par
\b\f2 <stopchan \ul CHANNEL:INT\ulnone >\b0\f0\par
\par
Stops sounds on a specific channel.\par
\par
\par
\b\fs48 Dialog Base\b0\fs30\par
\par
\b\f2 <clear>\b0\f0\par
\par
Clears the content of the dialog box. Typing begins again at the top left corner.\par
\par
\par
\b\f2 <close>\b0\f0\par
\par
Closes the dialog box, but doesn't remove it completely, so you can use it again without adding the dialog box back into the Dialog system.\par
\par
\par
\b\f2 <end>\b0\f0\par
\par
Closes Dialog Box and removes it from Dialog System.\par
\par
\par
\b\f2 <dg \ul DIALOG_CHUNK_ID:STRING\ulnone >\b0\f0\par
\par
Opens up another Dialog Chunk.\par
Ex: \f1 <dg Shop>\f0\par
(Opens up a dialog chunk named #Shop in dialog.txt)\par
\par
\par
\b\fs48 Text Effects\b0\fs30\par
\par
\b\f2 <shake>\par
</shake>\b0\f0\par
\par
Begin and end the text vibration effect.\par
\par
\par
\b\f2 <sine>\par
</sine>\b0\f0\par
\par
Begin and end the text sinewave effect.\par
\par
\par
\b\f2 <rotate>\par
</rotate>\b0\f0\par
\par
Begin and end the text revolve effect.\par
\par
\par
\b\f2 <grow>\par
</grow>\b0\f0\par
\par
Begin and end the text grow effect.\par
\par
\par
\b\fs48 Typing Scripts\b0\fs30\par
\par
\b\f2 <font \ul FONT:STRING\ulnone >\b0\f0\par
\par
Change the Font used to type dialog. These Fonts are NOT the Fonts in your Stencyl Dashboard. They are the ones defined in extras/fonts.txt.\par
\par
\par
\b\f2 <color \ul COLOR\ulnone >\b0\f0\par
\par
Change the color of the font. -1 for default font color, or hexadecimal color code, such as (#ff0000) or (0xff0000) for pure red.\par
\par
\par
\b\f2 <typespeed \ul SPEED:FLOAT\ulnone >\b0\f0\par
\par
Change the type speed of the dialog. 0.1 would case a character to be typed ever 10th of a second.\par
\par
\par
\b\f2 <typesound \ul SOUND:STRING\ulnone >\par
or\par
<typesound [\ul SOUND:STRING\ulnone  ...]>\b0\f0\par
\par
Change the sound that plays when a character is typed, or set it to "none" for no sound.\par
Using the second tag, you can provide a list of sounds, one of which will be played at random when a character is typed.\par
\par
\par
\b\fs48 Tag Parameter Reference\b0\fs30\par
\par
Text is normally enclosed in quotes, but if you only have one word, it\rquote s okay to omit the quotes.\par
Ex: \i\f3 soup\i0\f0 , \i\f3\ldblquote soup\rdblquote\i0\f0 , and \i\f3\ldblquote good soup\rdblquote\i0\f0  each count as their own strings, but \i\f3 good soup\i0\f0  would count as two separate strings.\par
\par
ATTR:\par
"game" gameAttributeName:STRING\par
"scenebhv" behaviorName:STRING attributeName:STRING\par
"actorbhv" ACTOR behaviorName:STRING attributeName:STRING\par
"actor" ACTOR actorValueName:STRING\par
(The following option is available only for the "Messaging Scripts" extension)\par
"dialog" attrName:STRING\par
\par
A list is a pair of brackets with comma-separated values.\par
[Value1, Value2, Value3, [Value4, Is, A, List]]\par
\par
ACTOR: Name of Actor using the Actor Identifier. To name an actor, use the following code from anywhere: "GlobalActorID.set("Name of Actor", _actorAttribute);"\par
FONT: Name of Font resource in Stencyl or "none" for default\par
COLOR: Hexadecimal Int (0xffffff) or (#ffffff) or -1 for default\par
SOUND: Name of Sound resource in Stencyl or "none"\par
STRING: Text\par
FLOAT: Floating point number, such as .1\par
INT: Integer number.\par
DIALOG_CHUNK_ID: ID of Dialog (following the # in dialog file)\par
ANY: Can be a string, number, bool, or list.\par
IMAGE: Name of .png image (minus ".png" extension) stored in extras folder, or "none" for default.\par
}
 